\documentclass{book}
\begin{document}
\title{GENEALOGY OF THE CRANE FAMILY VOLUME II.}
\author{ELLEREY BICKNELL CRANE}

\maketitle
\tableofcontents

\chapter{Stuff; Things}

\section{EXPLANATION}

Two Indexes have been prepared for descendants of each of the
four progenitors. One giving the Christian names of Cranes, the other,
names of persons who have intermarried with them ; alphabetically
arranged.

Also an index of Christian names of Cranes found in the Addenda.
In looking for a certain name, unless you know to which line the
person belongs it will be necessary to examine each of the Ave indexes.

The number after the name is the consecutive number. Turn to this
number in the body of the book and you will find the person's family
record. If the person had no family the number will refer to the birth
under the parent's name. If the Index does not give the name sought,
And n;ime of the parent, and look through the list of the children.
Some names came too late for numbering. Where there are several
names alike, the year of birth placed before the name may help to
indicate the one sought.

The bracketed [  ] number after the name of a parent refers to the number where the person appears as a child.
After the name of a  parent the pedigree is indicated in parentheses ( ) with small figures above, showing to what
generation the name helongs, and giving the names back as far as the progenitor of the line.

The following abbreviations have been used: b. for born, m. for
married, unm. for unmarried, (s. settled), d. for died.



\section{ERRATA}

Page 37, 5th line, read Glastonbury for Glassenbury.
Page 120, 3d line, read Parmele for Parnele.
Page 150, 5th to 11th line, read without parentheses.
Page 189, 1st line, read Mary for Maria.

Page 190, 34th line, read Edward Martin for Edward Norton.
Page 302, last two lines, read Huntington after Samuel and Hannah.
Page 323, 29th line, read Croes for Cross.
Page 333, last line, read William for Hugh.
Page 345, after 698, Hannah Crane, read [265].
Page 370, after 1132-2, read Frances for Kraucis.
Page 374, after 1184, Timothy Dwight Crane, read [588].
Page 385, 3d line from bottom, read 3 sons and 2 daughters.
Page 386, in 3d line, read 8 children for 6 children.
Page 386, after 1452-8, read Davis for Davie.
Page 430, after 2223, Stephen, omit V.

Page 465, after 2741, Isabel W. Crane, read [2570] for [2624]
Page 465, after 2742, Bessie K. Crane, read [2571], for [2625].
Page 486, 6th line from bottom, read Erastus D. Crosfleld for
Erastus P. Crosrield. 309-4, after Orpha M. read Erastus D.
Page 387, 315-10, after Samuel, read T. for F.
Page 488, 365-6, omit in before the word Boston.
Page 489, 392-4, read Bragaw for Brown.
Page 490, 408-2, omit the words no children.
Page 490, 414-2, read Heyt for Keyt.

Page 496, 530, after William Crane, read [213] for [212].
Page 510, 757-6, omit all after M. Moore.
Page 510, 759-8, omit all after Sarah Briggs.
Page 542, 1402, after Ann Maria Crane, read [919] for [917]



\section{PREAFACE}



VOLUME I. of the Crane Family Genealogy, published in 1895,
contains an article on Origin of the name Crane; copies of
five different armorials belonging to the family ; a sketch of the
Crane family in England, with pedigrees covering thirteen genera-
tions, and a brief reference to the first of the name who came to
New England, together with Henry Crane of Wethersfield and
Guilford. Conn., and his descendants of nine generations; a list
of Cranes who served in Connecticut as lawmakers and public
officials ; also a list of members of the family who served in the
French and Indian, as well as the Revolutionary war, from
that State. There has been considerable delay in issuing the
second volume, and no doubt some interested persons have
become impatient to see the work in print. But the task
of tracing the lines from live different progenitors has been
no easy one. Special care has been exercised in keeping each
line of descendants independent of the other, although they
have in some instances intermarried, and in many cases resided
for years in close proximity to each other. Volume II. has
exceeded in size our most sanguine expectations, for the
reason that the descendants of Jasper and Stephen Crane of
New Jersey have so willingly assisted in supplying records
from private sources that could in no other way be furnished.
The early public records of New Jersey, so far as the writer's
experience extends, furnish a very unsatisfactory field for the
genealogist. During the early settlements there seems to have
been no fixed system for recording births, marriages and deaths
for preservation. Probate Records have supplied the greater
portion of the early records for the descendants of Jasper and
Stephen Crane. Some of the early church records, from which
much was expected, were found to have been destroyed by fire.
The lack of dates has caused a vast amount of trouble in estab-
lishing the identity of certain members of the family. "Where



there seemed any doubt of the identification it has been ex-
pressed in the context or by a foot-note.

Although the writer has given a vast amount of time, and a
considerable sum from his means in prosecuting this work, still
he is fully aware how difficult is the task of collecting material
and compiling a work of this nature, and presenting it free from
inaccuracies. Every effort has been made to avoid errors, and
wherever different dates or conflicting statements have been
received regarding the same event, which has frequently been
the case, careful investigation has followed in order to determine
if possible the correct statement to be used in the book. To
the many friends who have in any way contributed to the
encouragement of this work the writer would here express his
profound gratitude. Among the names of those who have
given special aid in its prosecution may be mentioned : Rev.
Elias Nettleton Crane. Rev. Oliver Crane and James Eells
Crane, all deceased; the latter died Nov. 19, 1893, in Phila-
delphia, Pa. ; William M. Crane, Greenville, Mich. ; Stephen S.
Crane, Maple Hill Farm, High Ridge, Conn. ; Harrison Horton
Crane, Middletown. N. Y. ; Augustus S. Crane, Elizabeth, N. J. ;
Miss A. J. Reed, Carmel, N. Y. ; Dorothy N. Law, Dixon, 111. ;
Anna Russell Vance, Milwaukee, Wis. ; Henry Harmon Noble,
Albany, N. Y. ; Horatio Grain, Key West, Fla. : and J. M.
Crane, Kingwood, West Va.

Records of several families needing further proof to define
their position in the body of the book have been placed in the
Addenda with the hope that some of the descendants may be
able to find the connecting link. In some instances the peculiar
spelling of names has been retained, believing members of the
families would prefer to have them presented in that way.

ElXERY BlCKN'ELL CRAXE,

Worcester, Mass.
January, 1900.
